
000
FXUS65 KTWC 300933
AFDTWC

Area Forecast Discussion
National Weather Service Tucson AZ
234 AM MST Sat Jan 30 2021

.SYNOPSIS...Areas of dense fog are expected this morning mainly 
from Tucson north and westward. Otherwise, dry and cool weather 
today. Temperatures will warm starting Sunday and continuing into 
early next week before the next weather system impacts the region 
around Wednesday and Thursday. 

&&

.DISCUSSION...The mid/upper level trough and frontal band that 
resulted in shower activity for most of southeast Arizona last night 
has mostly pushed east of the area. Any residual light showers will 
wrap up in the next hour or so across Cochise County with clouds 
gradually diminishing there this morning. For the remainder of the 
area, skies have generally cleared which given the wet ground and 
elevated dewpoints is allowing for the development of some dense fog 
mainly from Tucson north and westward. In collaboration with PSR, we 
decided to hoist a Dense Fog Advisory for Eastern and Central Pima 
County along with South-Central Pinal County through 9 AM. Certainly 
not all areas will see fog but we're seeing increasing fog signature 
showing up on satellite over Pinal County and portions of the T.O. 
Nation which is likely to continue through the early morning hours. 
Once any fog lifts later this morning, it's shaping up to be a sunny 
but cool late January day with highs about 5 to 8 degrees below 
normal.

As ridging firmly builds in for Sunday and Monday, heights and 
thickness values rise accordingly to result in much warmer 
temperatures. The ridge will be 'dirty' with considerable mid and 
high level cloudiness starting Monday and continuing Tuesday as the 
flow becomes more southwesterly ahead of the next trough. 
Temperatures should peak Tuesday about 10 degrees above normal. 

The next storm system is expected in the Wednesday afternoon through 
Thursday timeframe. Still considerable uncertainty on the details of 
this system regarding the timing and exact track. We could see a pre-
cursor subtropical disturbance resulting in some showers as 
early as Wednesday afternoon out ahead of the main portion of the 
storm Wednesday night into Thursday. Bottom line is expect another 
chance of valley rain and mountain snow showers with a return to 
cooler temperatures. A few showers could persist into Friday mainly 
from Tucson eastward, especially if the storm is a bit slower 
ejecting eastward. 

&&

.AVIATION...Valid through 31/12Z. Some FEW/SCT low/mid level clouds 
remain this morning south and east of KTUS, however these are 
rapidly dissipating. With the recent valley rain and clear skies, 
VCFG/FG is possible for KTUS this morning. Any FG will burn off by 
15Z or so. Expect SKC for all TAF locales during the late morning 
and into the afternoon. SFC winds will be light and generally favor 
the a NW direction. Aviation discussion not updated for TAF 
amendments.

&&

.FIRE WEATHER...Warm and dry today through at least this coming 
Tuesday, before another storm system approaches the region. This 
system will have a chance to bring another round of valley rain and 
mountain snow showers with breezy to windy conditions. Cooler 
temperatures will also accompany this storm system.

&&

.TWC WATCHES/WARNINGS/ADVISORIES...
Dense Fog Advisory until 9 AM MST this morning for AZZ502-504-
505.

&&

$$

Visit us on Facebook...Twitter...YouTube...and at weather.gov/Tucson

